[Music]
I just have an understanding of the life
process from studying the cases of small
children who have spontaneous memories
of their most immediate former life and
we have hundreds and hundreds of these
cases documented by dr. Ian Stevenson at
the University of Virginia and by
studying the various child
psychotherapists who work with children
and adult psychotherapists who work with
adults in taking people back to the
source of their pain and and recovering
the early trauma and the healing that
this produces in their present life
eventually we have accumulated enormous
evidence for the fact that we
reincarnate we reincarnate many many
times so then my concern is to say well
so what what does what are the
implications for how we live our life
and how we understand our life and how
we understand our relationships from
this understanding that we reincarnation
is a fact of life
and my understanding is when we die we
return to spirit and to soul into a
larger intelligence and then we
consciously choose the circumstances of
our next incarnation and we get small
and focus in experience and then we die
and we expand into the larger arena and
we come back and we learn it's like in
college when you choose your courses you
then focus for the semester and at the
end of the semester you step back and
say ah that's over how nice and then we
choose another round of courses and by
going back and forth lifetime by
lifetime hundreds of years thousands of
years tens of thousands of years we are
growing we are becoming more than we
were before I think it makes an enormous
difference
it places all the questions we have
about life and all the projects we may
undertake in our life and all the
relationships we have in our life on a
larger perspective you know it basically
lifts the constriction of time from our
understanding existence if we have in
fact tens of thousands of years to
accomplish whatever the purpose of life
is it gives us a much
larger landscape a much larger canvas on
which to create on which to understand
first of all and then on which to create
we understand that we are not simply
developing the life process for few
years or a few decades but we're
developing the life process for tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands of years
that naturally invites us to undertake
projects which we will not be able to
fully accomplish or realize in this
lifetime but we undertake projects which
we will will see a fruition in lifetimes
to come and it also expands our sense of
our connections to other people because
the the relationships that we have in
this lifetime did not probably did not
begin in this lifetime but they have an
older history and likewise the way we
treat people in this lifetime will have
consequences in a subsequent lifetime so
it just enormous ly expands the canvas
in which we create I truly think that we
don't really understand yet how entering
into extreme non-ordinary states of
consciousness is impacting our
incarnation in this lifetime if we are
dealing with gentle states of
non-ordinary States or psychedelic
States if we're dealing with simply
staying close to the shoreline of time
and space and just unearthing some pain
from this life or earlier in our life we
have medical models for how to
understand that if we go deeper to
experience the continuity of life across
time and the inherent presence of the
divine our cosmic intelligence in life
then we still have spiritual models for
understanding how these things might
work but when we go very very deep into
the universe when we go beyond the
limits of space beyond the limits of
time when we immerse ourselves
profoundly into the crystalline body of
the divine how these experiences are
being assimilated by us when we come
back that I think we are still working
out we're still trying to understand at
least I'm trying to work that out
it has changed my understanding of my
life it's changed my understanding of
history it's changed my understanding of
the divine and I don't when I say the
divine I don't mean the divine within
our conventional historical culturally
embedded concepts of the divine because
those get shattered along the way it's
made me very forward to dying because I
have no fear of what's waiting for me
when I die because I've already been
there multiple times and I'm look
forward to what happens when I die I
think the the most challenging aspect of
going into these states and coming back
is working to stay open so you can use
these temporary experiences as seeds to
catalyze a deepening of your own life
once you were here once you are back you
can't stay in those states you can't
even recreate those states here but by
entering into those states they give us
seeds of understanding and seeds of
experience and we can nourish those
seeds here using traditional spiritual
practices meditation practices acts of
compassion and so on so for me how these
experiences have impacted my life are
still being worked out also I found that
as long as I had to keep silent about
these experiences as long as I could not
teach from these experience I could not
share these experiences there is a sense
in which my integration of those
experiences was only partial now that
I've begun to speak freely about the
experiences now that I've begun to write
and teach from these experiences I find
that their integration into my being has
deepened but this is just beginning
after 20 years after I stopped these
experiences only now have I begun to
write about them completely and speak
about them completely we'll see where
that goes but I have a sense that it's
going someplace I do not know where it's
going to go yet
the messages I take away are
banish fear the things that we are
afraid of are not rooted in reality that
there is a deeper reality in which that
dissolves all those fears the message is
to cultivate love and compassion for all
beings because compassion is inherent in
the nature of oneness and the world is
ultimately one in its deepest forms and
its deepest roots all individualized
expression of life emerges out of a
fundamental oneness the more we
recognize that and live in oneness the
more comfortable we are the more we
embody the values of oneness the more we
are synergistically coupled with the
processes of life fear comes out of a
sense of isolation and and an atrophied
individuality a rich robust
individuality relates to the world in
compassion and looks to the good of the
whole it said in some spiritual
traditions everything I do for myself is
the source of my pain everything I do
for others is the source of my freedom
and my joy I think that's true what we
do for others is is our liberation
because we are enacting the truth of
oneness and I think one of the other
teachings is to have a long-term time
horizon that we are in a process of
maturation which will not be concluded
in a few decades or a few centuries our
maturational development takes place
over tens of thousands millions billions
of years so our relationship with the
universe is a dance which will continue
for long after we this body falls away
let me narrow the scope a little bit to
where I think the human race is going
because in the work that I did I was
given many many deep visionary
experiences of human evolution what's
happening with the human race right now
and this is a natural outgrowth when you
when your consciousness when your
individual consciousness shatters when
the shell of your individual mind
shatters and you open into the larger
context of mind you don't simply shoot
straight into oneness and become one
with totality but one of the things that
happens is that you open into your
species mind you open into the mind of
the species and when you were in that
state naturally you get some insights
into the developmental trajectory of
that species that you are in that larger
sense and many of my experiences kept
returning to this theme in a way that
completely surprised me where we are
going what's happening and over and over
and over again the teaching was humanity
is coming to a time of great awakening
humanity is coming in time into an
explosive exponential increase in its
capacity but for this to take place for
there to be this tremendous remaking of
the human spirit
there must be take place a deep
purification process a literally kind of
a dark night of our collective soul
which is a purification a confrontation
with the shortcomings of everything that
we've been doing in history which has
been keeping us small and the a
confrontation with our smallness in
order to open to this new and emerging
greatness of our being so I think we in
this century we are entering into a time
of tremendous purification of time of
destructuring a time of losing control
falling apart and one of my experiences
I was taken forward in time in and was
allowed to experience the death and
rebirth of humanity at some point in the
future I don't know when but a an
organic long historically embedded
process where I experienced the entire
collapse of humanity and entering into
what you might call a near-death episode
collapse it seemed like we were going to
the point of extinction
breakdown of life in our structures it
fundamental levels but then from that
there took place the tremendous
resurgence a birth process so I think
the historical the historical crisis
that we are entering the the global
systems crisis which we are entering
which is being driven by a global
ecological crisis this external crisis
of a world we're just trying to become
one and overcome this history of
factions and history of individualist
history of nationalisms its history of
classism its history of gender conflict
this crisis is taking place in the
global system is actually
synchronistically coordinated with a
developmental crisis which is taking
place internally as we are trying to
become one planet I think we are trying
to become one soul so that we carry the
history of the planet in our being
through our former lives and so as the
planet is trying to become one I think
we are individually trying to become one
and I think the solution ultimately of
our planet becoming one integrated whole
in a healthy productive way is actually
dependent upon ultimately each of us
becoming whole individually so that I
expect that the solution in the end of
the global systems crisis will be the
birth of what I call the diamond soul
which is the birth of soul consciousness
inside time and space we will wake up we
will wake up and realize we are not just
this body we have a much larger history
and all the experiences of all of those
lives come together and fuse and when
they fuse they just don't become a
longer story but they fuse in an
explosion of energy which lifts the
entire experience of being alive to a
higher register so I basically think
that Humanity is coming in too late
we have been in gestation for hundreds
of thousands of years gestation is long
labor is fast labor is very intense and
painful but we are in the process of
giving birth not just to a new culture
to a new economy but we are in the
process of giving birth to a new form of
human being on awakened human being a
being with a much expanded compassion in
a much opened mind
[Music]
you